---
layout: default
title: About Me
---

I am a final year undergraduate student studying Computer Science at College of
Engineering, Pune. I love Computer Science- code, concepts and theory! And
mathematics. And a lot of other stuff that is intellectually interesting or can
somehow be "optimized".

I'm primarily interested in working on challenging projects which lie at the
intersection of implementation and theory. I like system-y stuff, parallelism,
concurrency, algorithms, and am really excited about programming languages and
Compilers.

Have worked on a lot of projects- hacked the xv6 kernel, wrote a couple of web
apps for solving problems which I *actually* faced in college, a github follow
recommendation website using pagerank. During my Sophomore year, when I wrote a
MinMax based chess AI, in C. That's when I got hooked- days of milling around
thinking of some design issue, drawing up flowcharts on whiteboards.

I did a research internship at IIT Kanpur in December 2019-20 and summer 2020
with Prof. Swarnendu Biswas. Worked on sparse matrix format selection for SpMV on
GPUs and high performance processors. Primarily created a semi-supervised format
selection model which only requires labelling of a 10% subset of the training
set, with a view to inexpensively create models for different processor
architectures, to enhance portability. During the winter and in early summer I
studied NVIDIA CUSP CUDA kernels for Sparse Matrix Vector multiplcation, and
created schemes for creating representative sparse matrix samples for format
selection. Also proposed new statistical features for characterising sparse
matrices with respect to these kernels.

Wore many hats- wrangled data, used an *extreme* amount of Unix tools. Created
an OOP system which allowed easy evaluation of different format
selection model ideas. Learned to read, and acquired a huge pile of papers from
different areas of CS, which I hope to get through one day.

I am the ADCS Subsystem Lead at COEP's Satellite Initiative. We are working on
designing (and hope to launch) a Solar Sailing satellite- one which manuevers
its orbit purely using solar radiation. My work involved designing and testing
solar sail orientations for maximizing orbit rise. Built a continuous thrust
propagator using the Python API of GMAT's General Mission Analysis Tool, and
verified it. Found some anamolous trends in the orbit, and found an interesting
explanation for these anomalies. Before that I worked on adding modules to a
C-based satellite orientation simulation in an *ooold* codebase.

If you are a COEP student, consider joining the team the next time we conduct
inductions! We've got really cool stuff going on.

This is also my blog- the posts are scattered and mostly not deeply CS related,
but hey! Other stuff is fun too! If you want to see my code, look at my
[github](github.com/akshayrdeodhar).

Inspite of my respect for Emacs and Arch users, I opt to use Vim and Manjaro,
and have grown to love the GUI package manager. Open source fan. Recently
started using Clang instead of GCC.

I hope to do things in life other than CS- I've at different points in time been
really into trekking, Sci-Fi and Fantasy, Wodehouse, Douglas Adams, classical
music (western and Hindustani), Chess, and Badminton. I've a writer in our
college's magazine team, and have written some weird but highly entertaining
articles. I have a long-unfulfilled wish of running a Dungeons and Dragons
campaign in a highly detained steampunk world. I learned a bit of sculling
during my summer break after second year, but have a tendency to fall into the
Mutha river from the stablest of boats.
